Sam?
We drugged him. sir.
It'd be better if he slept.
Didn't see much.
The boys went in. Hit the rocks.
How did it go. Pete?
Fine. Sam.
We take those rocks?
Most of them.
Worst...
ground I ever saw.
You know that?
They call it...
Devil's Den. It's a good name for it.
What casualties?
Don't know yet.
Got to give my boys credit.
You should've let me go to the right.
We should've gone to the right.
He needs to rest some.
You summoned me. sir?
Harrison.
I did.
I've got some night work.
Are you up to it?
"All the world will be in love with night...
"And pay no worship to the garish sun."
When this is all over.
I do look forward to seeing you on stage.
What are the General's wishes?
I want you to go out on the right.
scout the federal position.
Their condition. what they've got
in reserve. what they're bringing up.
It'll probably take all night.
But I want it right and clear.
-Your obedient servant. General.
-Good.
Now. Harrison. it'll be dangerous.
And I do appreciate this.
Thank you. sir.
But I must confess.
the thing that bothers me about this job...
is the absence of an audience.
When you do it right. no one knows it.
Nobody ever watches your work.
Do you see?
That's very hard on an actor.
Go on.
General. I'm very glad to see you well.
I've just come by for my orders. sir.
It would appear
that General Stuart has returned.
The prodigal son.
It was very close this afternoon.
Sir?
They nearly broke.
I could feel them breaking.
There for a moment I thought I saw
our flags go up the hill.
It wasn't that close.
The attacks were not properly
coordinated. I do not know why.
And nevertheless. we nearly won the day.
I could see a clear road
all the way to Washington.
How is it with General Hood?
I think he'll live. May lose an arm.
Dear God.
I couldn't spare General Hood.
So many good men were lost this day.
Sir?
Lo did take the peach orchard
and wheat field.
But he couldn't get up that ridge.
And Hood. he seized the Devil's Den.
but he couldn't take the little rocky hill.
The federals still hold the heights.
And they're reinforced.
General?
That way around to the right is still open.
I will think on it. General.
We have enough artillery
for one more good fight. but just one.
I know.
Let me think on it.
-General--
-I am very glad to see you well.
We will speak again in the morning.
You know. hearing you talk
about monkeys and trees...
I remember the time
during a cannonade on the peninsula.
There was one tree
for the men to hide behind.
It was a skinny little tree
and the boys. they fell in behind it...
in a long thin line
which ruled just like a pigtail.
It swayed to one side. then the other.
A shell came this way.
the line swayed that way.
A cannonball came that way.
the line swayed this way.
It was a thing to see.
George. what has that got to do
with what we're talking about?
General.
Carry on. gentlemen.
Don't let me interrupt the revival.
General. you're just in time.
I've been trying to persuade George here
of the modern. scientific...
theories of Charles Darwin.
The theory of evolution.
The notion that all mankind
is descended from the ape.
He does not subscribe.
-Is that so?
-I do not.
I've ordered General Armistead to stop
filling his head with heathen blasphemies.
Now. you are to devote
your reflective moments to study...
in the matters of military significance.
Ordered me.
Or perhaps appropriating
some more of this fine whiskey here.
Absolutely.
-Would you care for?
-No. thank you.
Surely the commanding general
shares my deep feelings of disgust...
at this simian suggestion.
I suppose there's some pretty smart folk
that take Darwin for the Gospel.
They would not be invited to join
George's ever-shrinking circle of friends.
General Longstreet. sir.
I intend to lay this matter to rest
for once and for all time.
Good.
Perhaps there are those among you who
think that you are descended from an ape.
I suppose it's possible
there are those of you...
who believe that I'm descended
from an ape. but...
I challenge the man to step forward...
who believes that General Lee
is descended from an ape.
-Here. here.
-Not likely.
All science trembles before
the searing logic of your fiery intellect.
So. exactly how many of your relatives
are there that are apes?
What do you hear about Sam Hood?
He may lose an arm.
Dick Garnett isn't fit. Can't hardly walk.
Thing is. if there's a fight.
he can't stand to stay out of it.
But if you ordered him to stay out....
I don't suppose you could do that.
That boy can sing.
That's Kathleen Mavourneen.
What do you hear about Hancock?
Ran into him today.
He's out there about a mile or so.
Just a mile or so. And he was tough.
Very tough today.
He's the best they got.
God don't make them any better.
And that's a fact.
I'd like to go over to see him
as soon as I can.
The last time I saw Winn...
he played that song. That very song.
Back in California.
we were all together for the last time.
Before we broke up.
Spring of 1861.
Myra Hancock.
Do you remember Myra. Hancock's wife?
Beautiful woman.
Most perfect woman I ever saw.
They were a beautiful couple.
Beautiful.
Garnett was with me that night.
A lot of fellows from the old outfit.
People standing around singing...
in the blue uniform.
We were leaving the next day.
Some going north. Some going south.
Splitting up.
A soldier's farewell.
"Goodbye. Good luck.
"I'll see you in hell."
Do you remember that?
Towards the end of the evening...
we all sat around the piano.
And Myra played...
that song there.
that was the one she played.
Maybe for years. maybe forever...
I'll never forget that.
You know how it was. Pete.
Winn was like a brother to me.
Remember?
Towards the end of the evening...
things got a little rough.
We all began to....
There were a lot of tears.
I went over to Hancock.
I took him by the shoulder. I said:
"So help me...
"if I ever raise my hand against you...
"may God strike me dead."
I haven't seen him since.
He was at Malvern Hill...
White Oak Swamp.
Sharpsburg. Fredericksburg.
One of these days
I will see him. I'm afraid.
Across that...
small deadly space.
I thought about sitting this one out.
But I can't do that.
That wouldn't be right either.
I guess not.
Thank you. Peter.
I had to talk about that.
I'm sending Myra Hancock...
a small package to be opened...
in the event of my death.
You'll drop by and see her...
after this is over.
Won't you. Pete?
Thank you.
What day is it now. Major?
It's long after midnight. sir.
It's already Friday.
-Friday. July 3?
-Yes. sir.
Then tomorrow is the Fourth of July.
Independence Day.
-I'd quite forgotten.
-The good Lord has a sense of humor.
I'm very sorry to keep you up so late.
It is my pleasure.
We should have a larger staff.
I'd be offended. sir.
I can do the work.
Very well.
General Stuart is waiting to see you. sir.
-Shall I bring him in?
-Of course.
-Major?
-Yes. sir.
General Stuart and I
must not be disturbed.
-Very well. sir.
-Thank you.
General Lee will see you now. sir.
You wish to see me. sir.
It is the opinion of some excellent officers
that you have let us all down.
Sir. if you will please tell me
who these gentlemen are?
There will be none of that.
There is no time.
I ask that I be allowed to defend my--
General Stuart.
Your mission was to free this army...
from the enemy cavalry.
And to report any movement
by the enemy's main body.
That mission was not fulfilled.
You left here...
with no word of your movement
or movement of the enemy for days.
Meanwhile we were engaged
and drawn into battle...
without adequate knowledge
of the enemy's strength or position.
Without knowledge of the ground.
So it is only by God's grace
that we did not meet disaster here.
General Lee. there were reasons.
Perhaps you misunderstood my orders.
Perhaps I did not make myself clear.
Well. sir. this must be made very clear.
You. sir...
with your cavalry.
are the eyes of this army.
Without your cavalry. we are made blind.
That has already happened once.
It must never. never happen again.
-Since I no longer hold the General's--
-I told you there is no time for that!
There is no time.
There is another fight coming tomorrow
and we need you.
We need every man. God knows.
You must take what I have told you...
and learn from it as a man does.
There has been a mistake.
It will not happen again.
I know your quality.
You are one of the finest
cavalry officers I have ever known...
and your service to this army
has been invaluable.
Let us speak no more of this.
The matter is concluded.
Goodnight. General.
Colonel. sir.
What are you doing up here?
I'm just resting my leg.
All right.
You sure can see a ways from here.
Where have you been?
We sent out a detail...
and found some more departed souls
down there...
and they were carrying coffee
for which they had no more use for.
You're a ghoul.
You did real good yesterday.
The way them rebs just kept coming.
You had to admire them.
You think they'll come again today?
It don't look like they're planning to leave.
We don't have but 100 men.
Even with the whole flock
from the Second Maine.
This position's good.
Diversion.
Go alert the pickets.
That may be a diversion.
They may be coming this way again.
Where's the ammunition I asked for?
Go check the hospital. see about the boys.
Check on Buster.
Very well. sir.
We need another runner.
I keep going up and down this hill.
my legs are going to fall off.
-Good morning. General.
-Good morning. sir.
-Ride with me. if you will.
-Yes. sir.
General Longstreet. you have
General Pickett now and he is fresh.
I want you to bring your corps forward.
Take those heights in the center
and split the federal line.
My two divisions. Hood's and McLaws'....
They executed a forced march yesterday
and went straight into the fight.
Lost half of their strength.
Sustained 50% casualties. sir.
They are tired and need rest.
There are...
now three federal corps on those two
rocky hills on our right flank.
If I move all my people forward...
we won't have a flank at all.
They'll simply swing around and crush us.
They are well entrenched up there.
They aim to fight.
They got good artillery and plenty of it.
Sir. any attack we make
will be uphill over open ground.
How do we communicate?
How do we coordinate attack?
They're all massed together.
damned near in a circle.
Good interior lines.
Anywhere we hit them.
they'll bring up reinforcements in minutes.
But we try to bring up support.
it has to come from miles away.
Their cannon will see every move.
Hell. their cannon are looking down
on us right now.
In the center. they will break.
They will break in the center.
They'll be gaining men from all directions.
guns by the thousands...
and Richmond has nothing left
to send us. So. if we stay. we fight.
If we retreat now.
we will have fought here for two days...
and will leave knowing
we could not drive him off.
And I have never yet left the enemy
in command of the field. No. sir.
Retreat is no longer an option.
The enemy has been attacked
on both wings.
He has reinforced there...
and is strongest there on the wings.
The hills and the rocks.
So the weak point is in the center.
They have command of the high ground.
But in that long slope. you see there?
The long slope in the center.
there's where he's most vulnerable.
General Pickett's Virginians
are the only people not yet engaged. Yes?
With General Longstreet in command.
my old warhorse...
meeting the enemy face to face
on ground of his choosing...
and with honor. we will prevail.
Sir. a courier from Colonel Rice.
Colonel Chamberlain.
That's some climb. sir.
My men need rations. Lieutenant.
Colonel Rice has entrusted me to tell you
that you're relieved. sir.
Relieved?
Fresh troops are on their way up
and they'll take over here. sir.
Colonel Rice wants to give
your people a rest.
He wants you to fall back.
and I'm to show you the way.
Fall back.
Ellis. have the men fall in.
We're moving out.
Yes. sir.
Where are we going?
Lovely spot.
Very quiet. Safest place on the battlefield.
Right smack-dab in the center.
Yes. sir. General.
We will attack the center.
But I think you are right about the flank.
Hood and McLaws were both very badly
damaged yesterday.
I'll give you two other divisions:
General Pettigrew and General Trimble.
They are stronger and rested.
Now. you will have nearly three divisions
at your command. including Pickett.
Your objective will be
that clump of trees yonder.
The attack will be preceded
by massed artillery.
We'll concentrate all of our guns
on that one small area.
A feu d'enfer. as Napoleon would call it.
When the artillery has had its effect.
your charge will break the line.
You will have nearly 15.000 men
at your command. General.
You may begin whenever you're ready.
But plan it well.
Do plan it well. I pray you. sir.
We stake everything on this.
With your permission.
Sir. I've been a soldier all my life.
I have served from the ranks on up.
You know my service.
I must tell you now.
I believe this attack will fail.
No 15.000 men ever made
can take that ridge.
It's a distance of more than a mile
over open ground.
When the men come out of the trees
they will be...
under fire of Yankee artillery
from all over the field.
Those are Hancock's boys.
And now they have the stone wall
like we did at Fredericksburg.
We do our duty. General.
We do what we must do.
Yes. sir.
Colonel Alexander is in charge
of the artillery and he is very good.
We will depend on him to drive them off
the ridge before your divisions get there.
And the men will know what to do.
All 15.000...
will concentrate squarely on the center
of that line. That lower ridge there.
The line is not strong there.
General Meade has great strength
on both flanks.
He must be weak in the center.
I estimate his strength in the center
not to be more than 5.000 men.
And Colonel Alexander's artillery
will break them up like at Fredericksburg.
-Yes. sir.
-Farewell.
What are you thinking. General?
Pickett's division is from my corps.
But the other two units
are of A.P. Hill's corps.
Shouldn't General Hill lead the attack?
Say again?
My apologies. sir.
I've always been very cautious.
Very cautious.
There is no one I trust more.
If we can take that ridge....
We can. And we will.
General. God go with you.
George. you are leading attack.
Now get ready. George.
Take your men behind the line of trees.
I'll give you details later.
Now. move. George!
Forgive me the torn trousers. sir.
An officer riding around like this.
Colonel Alexander.
Those federal cannon up on that
little rocky hill can cause some trouble.
I want you to assign some guns
and keep them silent.
Then...
you move forward
when the infantry advance...
keeping the flanks clear.
Porter. how old are you. son?
Sir. I'm 28. sir.
Porter. we must also clear those guns
off that low center ridge right there.
-That is the main thing.
-Yes. sir.
-I'm relying on you. son.
-Yes. sir. I'll sure keep them shooting.
Good.
I want you to use everything you have.
Maximum effort.
Fire all long-range ordinance.
But don't open up till I give the word
and everything's in position.
Then fire with all you've got.
I don't want to see a single gun silent.
Find an observation point
and check the damage.
We must clear those people off that ridge.
If we don't....
Anyway. you let me know when you're
nearing the end of your ammunition.
We must conserve enough to support
the infantry attack. Is that clear?
Yes. sir.
Johnston Pettigrew.
University of North Carolina.
Yeah. I know.
They still talk about your grades there
with reverence and awe.
Your reputation as a scholar
has preceded you. sir.
I hear you've written a book.
It was only a minor work.
If the general would care to read it....
-Surely.
-Take a copy with my compliments.
Captain. retrieve my book
from the baggage.
General. my apologies. but I do not believe
I will have time to read that today.
Gentlemen.
I want you to look
at that clump of trees on that ridge.
That is where all units will converge.
You will be spread out in a long line.
perhaps a mile. about 15.000 men.
All units converging on that point
on the crest of that ridge.
Now. look here.
The Yankee center. A stone wall.
A small grove of trees.
General Trimble. commanding
Pender's division. will be on the left.
Pettigrew's brigade in support.
General Pickett's division
will be on the right side of the attack.
And now. George.
I want you to put two brigades in front...
and one in back. like so.
Yes. sir.
Garnett's brigade.
That's Jimmy Kemper.
Armistead's in support.
Good. All right. then.
Garnett will dress off at Trimble's flank.
And he will be the hinge. so to speak.
in a series of left obliques.
Somewhere about
the Emmitsburgh Road...
you will execute your first left oblique.
Then direct.
Then left again.
And so on at your own discretion...
in order to deceive the Yankees
and spread them out in a long line.
Here. Any questions?
All right. gentlemen.
That is the conversion point.
That clump of trees.
We will use all of the artillery.
And it will center on the point. right there.
We'll fire every gun they have
until the ammunition runs out.
When that is done.
I will give the order and you all go in.
I do believe this attack will decide
the fate of our country.
All the men who have died in the past
are with you here today.
I want to say. sir. it is an honor to serve
under your command.
I want to thank you. sir. for giving me
the opportunity of serving here.
I have prayed. sir.
Can you take that ridge?
Harrison.
Would you mind giving someone an order
to give me a musket?
I think today I'd like to join the attack.
If I could even borrow a hat from a soldier
or just a jacket with some stripes on it.
Sir. just once.
Because I think. sir.
today might be the last day.
Haven't I earned it. sir?
You know what's going to happen?
I'll tell you what's going to happen.
Troops are now forming
behind the line of trees.
When they come out. they will be under
enemy long-range artillery fire.
Solid shot. Percussion.
Every gun they have.
Troops will come out under fire
with more than a mile to walk.
And still. within the open field...
among the range of aimed muskets.
They'll be slowed down
by that fence out there.
And the formation. what's left of it.
will begin to come apart.
When they cross that road.
they'll be under short-range artillery.
Canister fire.
Thousands of little bits of shrapnel
wiping the holes in the lines.
If they get to that wall
without breaking up...
there won't be many left.
A mathematical equation.
But maybe. just maybe...
our own artillery will break up
their defenses.
There's always that hope.
That's Hancock out there.
And he isn't going to run.
So it's mathematical after all.
If they get to that road. or beyond it.
we'll suffer over 50 percent casualties.
But. Harrison...
I don't believe my boys will reach
that wall.
Sir. with your permission.
I'll get myself that musket. sir.
That's General Meade's headquarters.
You're to take a position in reserve.
You don't have to entrench.
but please don't go away.
-Major Spear. do you have that?
-Yes. sir. I'll place the men.
You. sir. are to report to General Hancock.
If you will follow me.
General Hancock. sir.
Colonel Chamberlain. 20th Maine.
Chamberlain.
Yes.
I hear from the ranks that
you may have been more involved...
than anyone in staff has told me.
We were involved.
They tell me
you ordered a bayonet charge.
It's nothing to be ashamed of.
I might tell you.
I'm going to look into it.
We need fighting men in this army.
And one damn thing is sure.
we'll need some brigade commanders.
Meanwhile. well done. Well done.
Thank you. sir.
How's your outfit?
We need provisions.
The men need a meal. And ammunition.
We're out.
See to Colonel Chamberlain's request.
I want you to write a report.
Yes. sir.
They say you are a schoolteacher.
That seems like a long time ago.
Sometimes I'm not sure
how long I've been in this war.
Three years or three lifetimes.
-What do you teach?
-Rhetoric...
and Natural and Revealed Religion.
At Bowdoin College. sir.
Now you tell me. Professor.
Can you recall a story from antiquity
where two men...
who are best of friends. almost brothers...
where these men find themselves.
by a trick of fate...
on opposing sides in a great war?
Then. on a given day...
find themselves facing one another
on the very same battlefield?
If the Greeks did not tell of such a story.
surely the Romans did.
But. sir. I think it must be found
in the Bible.
There isn't an officer on either side...
who hasn't know someone wearing
the other uniform. I know that.
But this morning...
I looked through my glass
and saw the colors...
of the 9th and 14th Virginia regiments
on those ridges before us...
directly facing us. right over there.
It was as if I could hear his voice.
See his old crumpled hat.
Armistead commands one of Pickett's
brigades and he's out there for sure.
I somehow thought this day
would never come.
I thought the war would be over
in a month.
It's three years and how many more?
Who could've dreamed
it could go on for so long?
What would you do. Chamberlain?
What do the books tell you to do?
Now you go and rest up.
Nothing's going to happen today anyway.
Everybody's too tired. too hot.
too worn out. Both sides.
We're placed in reserve. just over there.
Thank you for your sentiments. sir.
I just got back from the hospital.
God-awful mess.
They got no room.
They got no shade.
They got men lying everywhere.
They're cutting off arms and legs
in front of everybody.
They ought to not do that in public.
Men ought to have some privacy
at a time like that.
You see Kilrain?
How is he?
He died.
He died this morning before I got there.
A couple of fellows were with him.
He said to tell you goodbye.
And that he was sorry.
I tell you. Lawrence.
I sure was fond of that man.
General. please get down.
We cannot spare you.
There are times when
a corps commander's life does not count.
How are you. Lo?
I'm fine. Dick.
Well. that's good.
How's the leg?
It's all right.
Can't walk.
I'll have to ride.
You can't do that.
You'll be the perfect target.
We're going up there today
and we're going to break that line.
When the Yankees run away. there'll be
an open road all the way to Washington.
And maybe we'll win it today.
And today will be the last day.
Maybe today.
I've got to ride up there.
Well. Lo.
I'll see you at the top.
My God. Lo. Isn't it marvelous?
I thought we missed it all.
-Any questions?
-No.
All right. then.
When the firing ceases.
we step out real quick.
No halting. no stopping to fire.
We want to get there quick as we can.
What about Garnett?
-What about him?
-He can't hardly walk.
Damnation.
George. order him not to make the charge.
General Armistead. how can I do that?
General Armistead. sir.
My compliments.
I hope Her Majesty's emissary
passed a comfortable night.
Slept like the dead. sir.
A baby. Slept like a newborn baby. sir.
Lie still. men. Keep down.
There's no safe place here.
One spot's as good as the next.
We've been firing for a good while. sir.
It's apparent neither the federals nor we
are going to gain a clear advantage.
If we continue to expend our ammunition
at this rate...
we may endanger our ability
to support the advance.
Did you not have enough ordinance
when this was begun?
The federal fire compelled us to remove
the artillery train farther to the rear.
It's taking us longer to refill the caissons.
Sir. we must slow down our fire now...
or we will have to cut back on the guns
sent in to support the infantry.
Damn!
I'll have to order General Pickett to halt
his attack until the guns get replenished.
The trains have a little ammunition.
It'll take an hour to redistribute it.
In the meanwhile.
the enemy would impound the top.
The more we delay...
the more time the federals have
to strengthen their own lines.
And even if we recover more supplies
from the ordinance train...
how much more damage can we inflict
on them than they on us?
They're bringing in fresh batteries
as quickly as we drive them off.
Just get some more ammunition
and keep it hot.
I can't send Pickett's division
or the others...
until we clear some of those guns
off that ridge.
I'm told you are descended
from an illustrious military family.
Who told you that? Kemper?
He tells me it was your uncle
who defended Fort McHenry...
during the War of 1812.
And that he was therefore the guardian
of the original Star-Spangled Banner.
I must say.
I do appreciate the irony of it all.
Colonel Fremantle.
It does not begin or end with my uncle
or myself.
We're all sons of Virginia here.
That major out there
commanding the cannon:
That's James Dearing.
First in his class at West Point.
before Virginia seceded.
And the boy over there
with the color guard.
That's Private Robert Tyler Jones.
His grandfather was
President of the United States.
The colonel behind me.
that's Colonel William Aylett.
Now. his great grandfather...
was the Virginian Patrick Henry.
It was Patrick Henry
who said to your King George lll:
"Give me liberty or give me death."
There are boys here from...
Norfolk.
Portsmouth.
Small hamlets along the James River.
From Charlottesville and Fredericksburg.
The Shenandoah Valley.
Mostly they're all veteran soldiers now.
The cowards and shirkers are long gone.
Every man here knows his duty.
They would make this charge
even without an officer to lead them.
They know the gravity of the situation.
And the mettle of their foe.
They know that this day's work...
will be desperate and deadly.
They know that for many of them...
this will be their last charge.
But not one of them needs to be told
what is expected of him.
They are all willing to make
the supreme sacrifice...
to achieve victory here.
The crowning victory
and the end of this war.
We are all here.
You may tell them
when you return to your country...
that all Virginia was here on this day.
A message from Alexander.
"Hurry up. for God's sake.
or the artillery can't help you."
Your order. sir?
General Longstreet.
should I commence the attack?
I shall lead my division forward. sir.
For the glory of Virginia.
form your brigade.
Gentlemen...
form your battalions.
Battalion. forward!
Father. into your hands.
I commend my spirit.
Up. men! Up! And to your posts!
And let no man forget today...
that you are from old Virginia.
Virginia !
Virginians!
For your lands! For your homes!
For your sweethearts!
For your wives!
For Virginia !
Forward!
March!
Come on. men!
And keep your heads down!
-Reload!
-Reloading!
Clear the lines! To the front. boys!
One. two!
We are with you. General!
Come on. boy!
The glasses!
Let's go! Over the fence!
Fill that gap!
Over the fence!
Come on. men! Move!
But save your strength for the attack
and get over the fence. quickly!
Give them double canisters! That's it!
Double canisters!
Get up. men! Fire!
Give them the cold steel!
Take that to General Longstreet
quick as you can.
With my compliments.
Damnation! Come on!
Do it!
Fire away. men!
Move it up!
Steady! Keep that line there!
Keep up your fire! Colonel!
Bring your men forward.
We'll flank these bastards.
Bring the men forward.
By God. we'll flank them.
Damn it all!
I will not be moved...
until this engagement is decided.
Get me a tourniquet
before I bleed to death.
Forward. boys!
What are you doing?
You've got to come up and help us.
In God's name. they're flanking us.
Coming down on the right
and firing right into us.
Head for the trees.
Head right for the center.
I'll call for double-quick. Nobody waits.
-Everybody goes.
-All right.
Boys! At the double-quick!
March!
Come on! Together!
Come on. boys! They're breaking!
Forward to the wall!
Get them to the ridge. boys!
Move out. boys! Move out!
Come on. boy.
What will you think of yourself tomorrow?
Virginians!
We're staying. Who will come with me?
Let's go. boys!
That's the style. Lo.
That's the style!
The day is ours. men!
Turn the cannons on them !
Turn the cannons!
Break them. Lo!
What's happening?
I can't see what's happening to my boys!
What's happening to my boys?
Major. give me your glasses.
There's a rebel. Take him prisoner.
Will you help me up. please?
Sir. could you tell me what your name is?
Who you are?
I would like to speak to General Hancock.
Do you know where General Hancock
may be found?
I'm sorry. sir. The general is down.
-He's been hit.
-No!
Not both of us.
Not all of us.
Please. God.
Sir. we're having a surgeon come
as quickly as we can.
Can you hear me. son?
Yes. sir. I can hear you.
Will you tell General Hancock...
that General Armistead sends his regrets?
Will you tell him...
how very sorry I am?
I will tell him. sir. I will tell him.
General Webb. sir.
Let go of the horse. Major.
Major Sorrel. I said let go of the horse.
Now you form up here.
put fire down on them.
They're coming
and I'm going to meet them.
Captain Goree. Come on!
General. what are your orders. sir?
What do you want me to do?
Where do you want me to go?
You've got to pull back. General.
Pull back. sir.
Place the guns. Bring up the guns!
God!
How are you. T.J.?
I'm tolerable. sir.
They aren't coming.
Too bad.
Yes. sir.
General.
I'll tell you plain.
There are times when you worry me.
No good trying to get yourself killed.
The Lord will come for you
in his own good time.
What are the orders. sir?
Prepare for defense.
but the Yankees aren't coming.
Come on. boys.
I have the figures from Pickett's command.
General Armistead is missing.
General Garnett.
missing and figured to be dead. sir.
General Kemper is down.
seriously wounded.
Sir. of the 13 colonels in Pickett's division.
seven are dead and six are wounded.
No more. You tell me the rest later.
-Major?
-Yes. sir.
Is that General Kemper
there bearing toward us?
I believe it to be. sir.
General Kemper.
I do hope you are not seriously injured.
They tell me that it's mortal. General.
I do pray God that it is not the case.
Is there anything I can do?
There's nothing more you can do for me.
But. General Lee. will you see to it
that full justice is done for my men...
who made this charge today?
I will do so. sir.
Thank you. General.
It's my fault.
I thought we were invincible.
Friends.
It is all my fault.
Hear me.
Hear me. I pray you.
It is entirely my fault.
Hear me.
Hear me. Please. friends.
We must rest now.
We must retire
and fight again another day.
And there will be another day.
Meanwhile. friends.
we must show good order.
Never let them see you run.
Do you hear me?
Let us hit them again.
Let us reform and hit them again.
I know we can do it.
God bless you. gentlemen.
They're forming over there. Major.
I do fear they may attack.
Yes. sir.
General Pickett.
You may reform to the rear of this ridge
and set up a defensive position.
General Pickett. sir.
You must look to your division.
General Lee.
I have no division.
General....
We will withdraw...
as soon as we have secured
all those wounded...
who are well enough to be moved.
If we can reach the Potomac...
and cross over into Virginia...
there will be no more immediate danger.
But I'll need your help. Pete.
I'm so very tired.
What can I do. sir?
General?
We must look to our own deportment.
The spirit of the army is still very good.
Very good indeed.
We will do better another time.
They do not die for us. Not for us.
That at least is a blessing.
If this war goes on....
And it will.
It will.
What else can we do but go on. you and I?
It's always the same question forever.
What else can we do?
If they fight...
we must fight with them.
And does it matter. after all. who wins?
Was that ever really the question?
Will almighty God
ask that question in the end?
Subtitles conformed by
SOFTITLER
English